# Introduction {#sec:introduction}

Cloud environments like Kubernetes solve many problems such as the discovery of services and data transfer or communication between services and applications in general. As the development of cloud-native applications (CNA) evolves, older applications move to the cloud as well.

However, a specific problem is not yet solved: "dynamic" trusted communication between services. For example, a service with the capability of handling OpenID Connect (OIDC) credentials wants to communicate with a service that only knows Basic Authentication. The OIDC-capable service must implement some conversion mechanism or know static Basic Auth credentials to communicate with the basic auth service. In general, this introduces changes to the software. In small applications that consist of one or two services, implementing this conversion may be a feasible option. But if we look at an application that spans over a big landscape and a multitude of services, implementing every used authentication mechanism will be error-prone work and does not scale well^[According to the matrix problem: $X \text{ services} * Y \text{ authentication methods}$]. In practice, we encountered the given scenario at various points in time when older applications were migrated into a cloud environment and newer applications were built around it. In almost all cases, the modern software was changed to communicate with the legacy systems, instead of modifying the legacy application.

The goal of the project "Distributed Authentication Mesh" is a concept and an architecture for a solution to the problem of dynamic credential conversion. By introducing multiple elements, such as a translator in conjunction with a proxy that is capable of modifying HTTP headers in-flight, the described problem can be solved. The proposed concept makes use of a common domain language to transfer the authenticated identity of a user between services of an application. The proxy intercepts the requests and instructs the translator to transform the common language into the valid authentication format of the destination.

The remainder of the report describes used technologies, terminology, and concepts. Furthermore, the state of the art gives an overview of the current situation and the present solutions in practice. With the description of the distributed authentication mesh, the report shows the conceptual idea and the architecture as well as a platform-specific example in Kubernetes. The feasibility of the concept is tested with the implementation of a Proof of Concept (PoC) on Kubernetes. The evaluation, following the description of the solution, validates if the goals and non-goals of the solution are met. The conclusion gives an overview of the work and a summary of the project.

For the understanding of the report, basic knowledge about Docker, Kubernetes, microservices and security is required. The implementation of the PoC is based on Kubernetes to display the concepts of the solution in a practical manner. In terms of authentication and authorization, the PoC uses OpenID Connect and Basic Authentication, which are both described in later sections.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTY4NDQzMTg3MiwtMTI0NzY4MzA3OSwxMz
Y4NjcyNTMzLC0xNjE1Mzc3NzFdfQ==
-->