# Conclusions and Outlook

This report showed a potential solution to the problem of dynamic credential transformation in systems with diverging authentication mechanisms. In {@sec:introduction}, a brief overview stated the problem and described the goal of the project.

{@sec:definitions} defined the scope of the project and explained various technologies and terms like "Kubernetes", "Operator Pattern", and "Sidecar Pattern". Furthermore, {@sec:definitions} introduced vital information about authentication, authorization, and security standards required for the general understanding of this report.

{@sec:state_of_the_art} then gave an overview of the current state of the art and the current problems. The maintainability of implementing multiple authentication schemes and the leakage of user credentials (like access tokens) onto the wire were identified as core problems.

To solve the stated problems in {@sec:state_of_the_art}, a conceptional architecture was proposed in {@sec:solution}. To show the architecture within a practical environment, {@sec:solution} also gave a platform-specific example of the archtecture in Kubernetes. The conceptual idea of the distributed authentication mesh introduced a solution to the issues of diverging authentication schemes and leakage of credentials. When using a proxy component to intercept traffic from and to a service, a "translator" component can modify the HTTP headers of the requests. This removed the requirement of transmitting sensible credentials over the wire, which fixed the issue of leaking credentials. The translator is used to transform outgoing credentials (for example an access token) to a common format. On the receiving side, the proxy intercepts the request and the translator converts the common format into the authentication scheme of the destination service. With the same principle, the issue of implementing multiple authentication schemes in an application was fixed as well. It is possible to have multiple transformers and therefore serve a multitude of authentication mechanisms without introducing code changes to the applications.

The idea of the distributed authentication mesh came close to the concept of SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language). While SAML provides a federated identity, it requires the participating services to implement the SAML protocol as well. The authentication mesh removes this requirement. The shown concept improves the developer experience by allowing dynamic credential transformation.

To validate if the concept is feasible, the proof of concept in {@sec:solution} has shown that it is possible to modify HTTP headers in-flight and therefore the core concept of the architecture is generally possible. Furthermore, {@sec:evaluation} checked if the given requirements and goals/non-goals were achieved with the proposed architecture. Additionally, the evaluation shows that the solution is able to enhance general security by preventing the leakage of credentials into the communication. Furthermore, the developer experience is increasing since no additional code must be created to support various authentication mechanisms.

As a complement to the main delivery of this project - the concept of the distributed authentication mesh - teaching material was created in the appendix. It targets the topic of "Kubernetes Operators and how to create them". This material may be used to introduce people to the operator pattern and helps to create a custom operator with a SDK.

The goal of the future work is to provide a federated authentication with secured communication without leakage of credentials out of the trust zone. The concept of the distributed authentication mesh from this work will be complemented with definitions to configure the mesh and the analysis and definition of the common identity format for the transmission. Furthermore, the concepts of the mesh will be used to implement a production-ready version of the authentication mesh in Kubernetes.

With the implementation of the authentication mesh in Kubernetes, various usecases can be covered. As an example, in the finance sector, banking APIs tend to use varying authentication schemes and do not wish to change their applications. The authentication mesh improves this situation by covering the dynamic transformation of credentials to the respective format. Additionally, this system could be implemented as an application that runs directly on an operating system to provide a federated identity into a company network. It negates the need of implementing technologies like SAML in each application that is accessed in this company network.

With the current trends, applications will be more heterogeneous in the future. Authentication protocols come and go and it is not likely that one particular standard will solve all issues. The concepts of this project should contribute to the sustainability in the security world.
